README.md, before:

## Kale JupyterLab Extension


This JupyterLab extension provides a Kubeflow specific left area that can be used to deploy a Notebook to Kubeflow Pipelines. The UI is just high level component designed to let the user annotate Notebook metadata and Cells metadata easily and visually. In order to convert the notebook to a Kubeflow Pipeline workflow and have it run in KFP, [Kale](http://github.com/kubeflow-kale/kale) needs to be installed in the same Python environment as the running Notebook Kernel.

### Getting started

```bash
# install jupyter lab
pip install jupyterlab==1.1.1

# install kale: see instructions in Kale repository
# ...

# install the extension
jupyter labextension install kubeflow-kale-launcher
# verify extension status
jupyter labextension list

# run
jupyter lab
```

![KaleLauncherScreenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow-kale/jupyterlab-kubeflow-kale/master/docs/imgs/kale-launcher-screen.png)

## How it works

Kale Launcher UI lets you update Notebook and Cells metadata according to Kale [spec](https://github.com/kubeflow-kale/kale#notebook-metadata-spec). The extension reads and saves Notebook metadata automatically, keeping a consistent view of the Notebook spec. You don't have to worry about manually saving the Notebook, the extension will write any new changes automatically.

When clicking the big blue run button, Kale will be run in the background over the active Notebook and perform the required action based on the button option selected.

The Launcher is able to invoke Kale in the background by programmatically executing shell commands in the Kernel environment. Specifically, it will run:

```
kale --nb <current_active_notebook_name> [--upload_pipeline] [--run_pipeline]
```

## Contributing

To build and run the extension in dev mode, first clone the repository in your local machine.

```bash
# Move to repository folder
cd jupyterlab-kubeflow-kale

# Install dependencies
jlpm install

# Build the extension. This will generate a dist/ folder with build files
jlpm run build

# Add the extension to jupyterlab. 
# Be sure to uninstall any other version first (e.g. npm kubeflow-kale-launcher package)
jupyter labextension install .
```

When developing, you can run `jlpm` in `watch` mode to incrementally compile the new changes:

```
jlpm run watch
```

And run JupyterLab in `watch` mode to load the new compiled version:

```
jupyter lab --no-browser --watch
```

Commit message:

Introduce prettier: githook, scripts, formatting, ci-workflow (#39)
* Add EditorConfig & prettierrc

* Also add prettier in package.json

* Format components/RokInput.tsx

* Format index.ts

* Format widget.tsx

* Format components/VolumesPanel.tsx

* Format components/LeftPanelWidget.tsx

* Format components/DeployButton.tsx

* Format components/ExperimentInput.tsx

* Format components/Components.tsx

* Format index.css

* Format components/deploys-progress/DeployProgress.tsx

* Format components/deploys-progress/DeploysProgress.tsx

* Format components/cell-metadata/CellMetadataEditor.tsx

* Format components/cell-metadata/ColorUtils.ts

* Format components/cell-metadata/InlineCellMetadata.tsx

* Format components/cell-metadata/InlineMetadata.tsx

* Format utils/CellUtils.ts

* Format utils/NotebookUtils.tsx

* Format utils/RPCUtils.tsx

* Format icons/BrowseInRokBlue.tsx

* Format icons/statusRunning.tsx

* Format icons/statusTerminated.tsx

* Hooks/pre-commit: Add husky & pretty-quick

* Format dev-notes.md

* Format README.md

* Add scripts formatting scripts

* format - Format all files with prettier
* format:check - Check if all files comply with prettier configurations
* format:staged - Format staged files with prettier
* format:check:staged - Check if staged files comply with prettier
  configurations

* Add GitHub workflow performing a prettier check

* Add .json files checking

And run prettier on package.json, tsconfig.json

* Add development notes for githooks README

* Simplify CI/prettier workflow

* Update yarn.lock

* Extend format scripts instead of rewriting the command

Also use `jlpm format:check:staged` in pre-commit hook

README.md, after:

## Kale JupyterLab Extension

This JupyterLab extension provides a Kubeflow specific left area that can be used to deploy a Notebook to Kubeflow Pipelines. The UI is just high level component designed to let the user annotate Notebook metadata and Cells metadata easily and visually. In order to convert the notebook to a Kubeflow Pipeline workflow and have it run in KFP, [Kale](http://github.com/kubeflow-kale/kale) needs to be installed in the same Python environment as the running Notebook Kernel.

### Getting started

```bash
# install jupyter lab
pip install jupyterlab==1.1.1

# install kale: see instructions in Kale repository
# ...

# install the extension
jupyter labextension install kubeflow-kale-launcher
# verify extension status
jupyter labextension list

# run
jupyter lab
```

![KaleLauncherScreenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow-kale/jupyterlab-kubeflow-kale/master/docs/imgs/kale-launcher-screen.png)

## How it works

Kale Launcher UI lets you update Notebook and Cells metadata according to Kale [spec](https://github.com/kubeflow-kale/kale#notebook-metadata-spec). The extension reads and saves Notebook metadata automatically, keeping a consistent view of the Notebook spec. You don't have to worry about manually saving the Notebook, the extension will write any new changes automatically.

When clicking the big blue run button, Kale will be run in the background over the active Notebook and perform the required action based on the button option selected.

The Launcher is able to invoke Kale in the background by programmatically executing shell commands in the Kernel environment. Specifically, it will run:

```
kale --nb <current_active_notebook_name> [--upload_pipeline] [--run_pipeline]
```

## Development

### Build

To build and run the extension in dev mode, first clone the repository in your local machine.

```bash
# Move to repository folder
cd jupyterlab-kubeflow-kale

# Install dependencies
jlpm install

# Build the extension. This will generate a dist/ folder with build files
jlpm run build

# Add the extension to jupyterlab.
# Be sure to uninstall any other version first (e.g. npm kubeflow-kale-launcher package)
jupyter labextension install .
```

When developing, you can run `jlpm` in `watch` mode to incrementally compile the new changes:

```
jlpm run watch
```

And run JupyterLab in `watch` mode to load the new compiled version:

```
jupyter lab --no-browser --watch
```

### Contribute

This repository uses
[husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky)
to set up git hooks.

For `husky` to function properly, you need to have `yarn` installed and in your
`PATH`. The reason that is required is that `husky` is installed via
`jlpm install` and `jlpm` is a `yarn` wrapper. (Similarly, if it was installed
using the `npm` package manager, then `npm` would have to be in `PATH`.)

Currently installed git hooks:

- `pre-commit`: Run a prettier check on staged files, using
  [pretty-quick](https://github.com/azz/pretty-quick)
